# Using Python and GitHub for Team Formation and Assessment

## Description

Since real-world software engineers collaborate through GitHub, students who are
learning to create software should also work in teams. Yet, team formation is
challenging for instructors who must surface student skills and interests when
forming balanced teams. Instructors also face the challenge of quickly and
accurately assessing both individual contributions and overall team
effectiveness. Both the formation of unstable teams and an instructor's slow or
incorrect assessment of students and their teams will compromise the learning
objectives for an assignment. Since the manual creation and assessment of teams
is time consuming and error-prone, instructors need automated tools to support
this process.

This poster will explain how to use the Python programming language and the
GitHub platform to create and assess student teams. After introducing surveys
that capture student interests and skills, the poster will show how to use the
[GatorGrouper tool](https://github.com/GatorEducator/gatorgrouper) that forms
teams according to the survey results, a student roster, and the desired number
and size of the teams. In addition to introducing the behavior and trade-offs
associated with GatorGrouper's techniques for group formation, the poster will
highlight features like the one that accounts for student absences.

Since GatorGrouper outputs teams in a format accepted by [GitHub
Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/), this poster will show how to use this
platform to create a version control repository for each team. After explaining
how teams can collaborate with GitHub's issue tracker and flow model, this
poster will highlight how to use Python to assess both individual and team
effectiveness. Along with showing how to access the issue tracker, pull request,
and branch history of a GitHub repository, the poster will show how the
[GatorGrader tool](https://github.com/GatorEducator/gatorgrader) can use this
information to ensure that, for instance, the team effectively shared the
assignment's workload and each student made acceptable individual contributions.

Software engineering and programming educators who visit this poster will learn
how the Python language and the GitHub platform support simple ways to create
and assess teams. Accessible to educators from a wide variety of backgrounds and
skill levels, this poster will explain how teachers can use tools, like
GatorGrouper, GatorGrader, and GitHub, to ensure that students master the
real-world skills that will enable them to be effective software engineers.
