# "Using ExecExam to Facilitate Effective Executable Examinations"

## Abstract

An executable examinations invites a learner to write, modify, and/or execute
Python source code to solve well-specified programming problems. This type of
assessment enables teachers to determine whether or not a learner can
effectively use a suite of software development tools to implement a program
that meets a specification. After highlighting the challenges associated with
delivering and assessing executable examinations at scale, this presentation
introduces ExecExam, a tool designed to streamline and automate the assessment
of Python programming tasks. Along with leveraging Pytest to automatically
verify student solutions against pre-defined tests, ExecExam uses large language
models (LLMs) to offer context sensitive advice to students who are struggling
to solve a programming problem.


These additions make ExecExam more than
just a Pytest test runner, offering educators and students a comprehensive
assessment and learning tool. The system generates detailed reports summarizing
test outcomes, highlighting successes as well as areas needing improvement.

ExecExam also has an optional inclusion of large language models (LLMs), which
provide students with detailed, step-by-step recommendations on how to fix their
code. With the integration of LiteLLM, a unified API, this tool provides
sophisticated, context-aware feedback for failing tests, guiding students toward
effective resolution of errors while fostering a deeper understanding of
programming concepts. Unlike simply receiving a list of failed tests, students
can obtain specific suggestions for code fixes or alternative approaches that
will pass the tests. This method cultivates a studentâ€™s programming education by
giving them steps on how to improve.

ExecExam helps instructors identify areas for improvement and empowers students
to acknowledge their mistakes and enhance their skills. Currently used by
college students and instructors, this tool proves valuable in computer science
education, particularly for Python learners.

## Key Takeaways

- 

