pycon_education_2025_quarto.md, before:

# "Building and Deploying Course Web Sites with Python, Quarto, and Mkdocs"

## Abstract

Instructors who teach students how to program in Python are often confronted by
the practical challenges of distributing an assignment, collecting the
submissions from students, offering automated insights on solution quality, and
then furnishing a final assessment of a student's work. This presentation
introduces how to use GitHub, GitHub Classroom, and GitHub Actions to create a
realistic and easy-to-use workflow for managing Python programming assignments.
Leveraging screenshots, example commands, and tool suggestions, this talk will
succinctly explain, from start to finish, how to create an assignment in GitHub
Classroom. Along with overview lessons learned from the use of GitHub Classroom
across multiple semesters, this talk will equip teachers with the knowledge and
skills that they will need to start using GitHub Classroom in their next class.

## Key Takeaways

- Understand the benefits of using version control, Git, GitHub, and GitHub Actions
- Create a solution to a Python programming project with passing automated checks
- Use implementation ablation to design a starter with purposefully failing checks
- Create a GitHub Classroom assignment using the GitHub repository for the starter
- Invite students to the complete the assignment through GitHub Classroom
- Offer automated feedback using GitHub Actions and automated checking tools
- Furnish comprehensive feedback through the use of GitHub issues and pull requests

## References to Online Course Web Site

- [Algorithm Analysis](https://www.algorithmology.org): Implement and evaluate correct and efficient algorithms
- [Computer Security](https://www.securitysynapse.org/): Explore computer security
principles and practices
- [Data Abstraction](https://www.proactiveprogrammers.com/data-abstraction/introduction-data-abstraction/): Build and manipulate correct and efficient data structures
- [Discrete Structures](https://www.proactiveprogrammers.com/discrete-structures/introduction-discrete-structures/): Clearly connect mathematics to Python programming
- [Operating Systems](https://www.os-sketch.com/): Build and understand operating system components
- [Software Engineering](https://www.developerdevelopment.com/): Team-based introduction to building software systems

Commit message:

feat: Add the starting draft of content in the pycon_education_2025_quarto.md file.

pycon_education_2025_quarto.md, after:

# "Building and Deploying Course Web Sites with Python, Quarto, and Mkdocs"

## Abstract

Creating effective course websites for teaching programming requires balancing
technical depth, pedagogical clarity, and user experience. This presentation
shares practical insights from the development of multiple Python-focused course
websites using both Quarto and Material for Mkdocs. In addition to overviewing
the features provided by both platforms, this talk will demonstrate how to
create components such as executable Python source code and presentation slides.
Through concrete examples from course websites created by the presenter for
diverse fields such as algorithm analysis, computer security, and software
engineering, the talk will highlight implementation decisions, workflow
improvements, and lessons learned from years of iterative refinement. While the
presentation will demonstrate the benefits of Quarto's bundled suite of tools,
it will also explore exciting new developments in Material for Mkdocs that may
make it a compelling alternative for educators who need to build a course site.

## Key Takeaways

- Understand the relative strengths of Quarto and Material for Mkdocs for course websites 
- Create consistent course materials that work both as documentation and presentation slides
- Design an automated deployment workflow for course websites using GitHub Actions
- Structure course content to maximize student engagement and accessibility
- Integrate Python programming examples that students can run directly in the browser
- Apply lessons learned from managing many technical course websites across different domains

## References to Online Course Web Site

- [Algorithm Analysis](https://www.algorithmology.org): Implement and evaluate correct and efficient algorithms
- [Computer Security](https://www.securitysynapse.org/): Explore computer security
principles and practices
- [Data Abstraction](https://www.proactiveprogrammers.com/data-abstraction/introduction-data-abstraction/): Build and manipulate correct and efficient data structures
- [Discrete Structures](https://www.proactiveprogrammers.com/discrete-structures/introduction-discrete-structures/): Clearly connect mathematics to Python programming
- [Operating Systems](https://www.os-sketch.com/): Build and understand operating system components
- [Software Engineering](https://www.developerdevelopment.com/): Team-based introduction to building software systems
