# Using Python, Travis CI, and GitHub to Effectively Teach Programming

## Overview

Have you ever wanted to effectively teach your students or colleagues about
programming? Suitable for full-time educators and industrialists who instruct
their colleagues, this hands-on talk will explain how you can teach programming
using Python, GitHub Classroom, and Travis CI.

## Description

Real-world software engineering is collaborative, commonly involving the use of
Git, GitHub, and continuous integration with Travis CI. Suitable for both
full-time educators and members of industry who educate their colleagues, this
presentation will explain how to use these technologies and platforms to teach
interdisciplinary and introductory courses in computer programming and software
engineering.

The presentation will first show how to create a GitHub organization connected
to a GitHub Classroom with unlimited private repositories that contain
instructor solutions and starter kits and submissions from both individual and
team-based assignments. The talk will next explain how to connect GitHub
repositories to continuous integration servers hosted by Travis CI, thus
supporting the cloud-based execution of tests and checks.

The presentation will subsequently introduce the design and implementation of
and the testing strategy for a Python program that supports the local and
cloud-based checking of the source code and technical writing for a project.
Designed to complement the automated checks performed by a test suite, this
tool, called [GatorGrader](https://github.com/GatorEducator/gatorgrader), can
verify that a submission contains the required number of comments and produces
the correct number of lines of console output. It can also, for instance, ensure
that a student makes the requisite number of commits to a GitHub repository and
implements a program in a specified fashion.

Ultimately, people who attend this talk will learn more about how to use
platforms like GitHub and Travis CI, open-source Python packages, and Python
programming language features to effectively deliver instructional materials and
assess assignment submissions.
