# A Hands-On Guide to Teaching Programming with GitHub, Travis CI, and Python

## Talk presented at PyOhio 2018

## Brief Description

Have you ever wanted to teach a room full of students or your colleagues? It
turns out that it is difficult to setup the infrastructure needed to deliver
source code and documentation and then assess submissions! Suitable for
full-time educators and industrialists who instruct their colleagues, this talk
explains how you can teach programming using GitHub Classroom, Travis CI, and
Python.

## Full Description

Real-world software engineering is collaborative, commonly involving the use of
Git, GitHub, and continuous integration with Travis CI. Suitable for both
full-time educators and members of industry who educate their peers, this
presentation will explain how to use these technologies and platforms to teach
interdisciplinary and introductory courses in computer programming and software
engineering.

The presentation will first show how to create a GitHub organization connected
to a GitHub Classroom with unlimited private repositories that contain
instructor solutions and starter kits and assignment submissions from both
individual and team-based programming assignments. The talk will next explain
how to connect GitHub repositories to continuous integration servers hosted by
Travis CI, thus supporting the cloud-based execution of tests and checks.

The presentation will subsequently introduce a Python program that supports the
local and cloud-based checking of a student's source code and technical writing
for a programming project. Ultimately, people who attend this talk will learn
more about how to use open-source software and the Python programming language
to effectively deliver instructional materials and assess assignment
submissions.
