# PyOhio Presentation

## Proposal Title

Type Annotations in Python: Terribly Intimidating or Tremendously Informative?

## Description

Many software developers have written a Python program without explicitly
declaring the types of the parameters for a function's parameters or return
values. Since the Python programming language now supports type annotations,
many people in the community are exploring this way to describe the data that a
function accepts as input and produces as output. When you start to apply
Python's type annotations, their syntax and meaning can be confusing and it is
common to wonder whether or not there is any benefit to adding them at all!

This presentation will introduce Python's type annotations by iteratively
applying them to a function that does not have explicit types. After explaining
how to use the types available in the `typing` package, this talk will
illustrate the ways in which a static type checker like `mypy` can find bugs in
a Python program before it is executed. People who watch this talk will gain the
knowledge they need to start writing their first type annotations, use them to
improve their Python programs, and ultimately find them to be beneficial.

## Additional Details

To ensure that the content in this presentation is most beneficial to the people
who watch it, this talk will be accompanied by three GitHub repositories in
addition to the video presentation. First, the presenter will share a repository
that contains the Open Broadcaster Software templates that were used to create
the video. The second GitHub repository to accompany this talk will include the
source code for the presentation slides. Both of these repositories will make it
possible for the people who watch the presentation to recreate all aspects of it
for their own talks and videos. The presenter will also offer another repository
that contains all the presented source code segments in the context of a
realistic Python program. This third GitHub repository will include, for
instance, the instructions needed to install the project's dependencies, run
`mypy` to statically analyze the program's types, and then add types to
resolve the issues raised by the type checker.

## Talk Objectives

- The benefits and challenges of using type annotations in Python
- The first step to take when adding type annotations to a function in a Python
  program
- How to use the `typing` package to annotate variables with complex types
- Examples of defects that static type analysis can find when a program has type
  annotations
- How to handle the situation in which an imported external package does not
  have type annotations

## Presenter Biography

Gregory M. Kapfhammer is an Associate Professor of Computer Science at Allegheny
College. Along with conducting research in the field of software engineering, he
teaches classes in a variety of technical and scientific areas and enjoys
programming in Python. In the Python community, Gregory has previously given
talks at PyGotham and PyOhio, presented posters at PyCon, and presented at
PyCon's Education Summit. You can learn more about Gregory by visiting his web
site at https://www.gregorykapfhammer.com/, checking out several of his Python
projects at https://github.com/gkapfham, and viewing the slides of his previous
presentations at https://speakerdeck.com/gkapfham.
