# Find Your Feature Fit: How to Pick a Text Editor for Python Programming

## Brief Description

What is important to you when it comes to text editors? To find out, join us in
comparing VS Code and Vim. From version control integration to source code
highlighting, with auto-completion, testing, virtual environments, snippets,
code navigation and linting in between, learn how VS Code and Vim handle each
feature and decide for yourself what fits your programming preferences when
using Python.

## Full Description

This presentation will explore the different features of text editors for Python
programming. By comparing the capabilities of VS Code and Vim, audiences of all
skill levels will receive the necessary information to make an informed decision
about which text editor fits their programming preferences. Using a day in the
life of a Python programmer as a guide, the talk will introduce and compare
features including fuzzy file finding and code navigation, auto-completion,
source code highlighting, linting, testing, virtual environments, and snippets.
For VS Code and Vim, these selected features showcase what is most important to
a Python programmer, highlighting the trade-offs and benefits of both text
editors. Using a Pytest plugin as a running example, here are some topics that
we will cover in this presentation:

- **Fuzzy File Finding**: Rapidly search for files in your project with names
  that match a pattern.

- **Source Code Highlighting**: Bring clarify by applying colors and fonts to
  your source code and technical writing.

- **Autocompletion**: Save time by quickly substituting partial code and text
  segments with the desired content.

Ultimately, this presentation will demonstrate that both VS Code and Vim are
outstanding text editors for Python, with features that can assist in many
everyday programming tasks. In different ways, and possibly with different
disadvantages or benefits, these text editors improve a programmer's efficiency
and effectiveness, becoming an indispensable part of a workflow. With the
knowledge of the features that VS Code and Vim offer, the audience will be able
to choose which editor is best for them, emerging with the know-how to configure
it to their preferences for Python programming. Both beginners and experts alike
will be capable of finding their feature fit for a text editor that supports
Python programming!

Linting and automated code formatting are features used by many programmers in
the Python community. The ability of a plugin to access code and format it by
parameters set by the programmer is essential in maintaining readability. Python
linters must be enabled. Yet, after this is done, a simple command can run
through the code and find and present the problems associated with that specific
code. Though Visual Studio Code linter cannot directly change the problem areas
of code, it is a useful feature. Linting with Vim has to be run using a plugin
like the asynchronous linting engine (ALE). This fact alone could lead to the
determination that VS Code is simpler in terms of linting, though certain
plugins for Vim are much more helpful than VS Code Python linting. In most cases
of Vim linting plugins, not only is the erroneous code pointed out, but it is
also automatically fixed. With that said, both VS Code and Vim support
integration with the Black tool for automated code formatting. In comparison to
VS Code, Vim arguably provides a more effective approach to linting and
automated code formatting.

A feature where there is no clear indication of a forerunner when comparing
VSCode and Vim is testing. Testing, an integral part of Python programming, can
range from running one test case to one test suite to multiple test suites. Both
VS Code and Vim are excellent at enabling programmers to do each of these tests,
and also provide a mechanism to record and present which tests pass and which
tests fail. With Visual Studio Code, the testing extension provides full access
to the VS Code API, which can run without a VS Code instance. Vim testing is
enabled through various plugins, all which run quickly and efficiently. Test.vim
is a well-used plugin that provides an abstraction of many different tests over
the command line, including, for instance, Nose, Pytest, and PyUnit for the
Python programming language.

Since Virtual environments are an integral part of Python programming, it is
nice to see that both VS Code and Vim provide support to, for instance, create
and destroy virtual environments and install and managing package dependencies.
This presentation will highlight how tools like pip and pipenv integrate with
both text editors, ultimately revealing that the feature sets for the two text
editors are comparable.

Snippets are a feature that is highly configurable by both Visual Studio Code
and Vim. As a mechanism that associates keywords with programmable blocks that
are then “filled in” to code segments, snippets must have the ability to be
developed by the programmer. This can be done as another feature of Microsoft
IntelliSense in VS Code and several Vim plugins. Snippets help to save time when
writing code, along with assisting in avoidance of mistakes. Snippets make
Python programming more efficient and more effective, whether VS Code or Vim is
used.

