README.md, before:

# python-talk-abstracts

![Build](https://github.com/gkapfham/python-talk-abstracts/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)

This repository contains Markdown files of the abstracts for talks that I,
[Gregory M. Kapfhammer](https://www.gregorykapfhammer.com/), have given at
Python-related and industry-oriented conferences, often in collaboration with
my students and colleagues. I am making these available to the community so
that others can review the details of talks accepted to this type of
conference. Whenever appropriate, I have enhanced the abstracts to make
references to the most up-to-date web sites and GitHub repositories.

This is a summary of the files containing abstracts for talks that I have given
at Python-related conferences:

- [PyCon Lightning Talk 2021: Committing to Writing Good Commit Messages:
  Supporting the Creation of Human- and Machine-Readable Commit Messages with
  Python](pycon_lightning_2021_commit_canvas.md)

- [PyOhio 2021: Type Annotations in Python: Terribly Intimidating or
  Tremendously Informative?](pycon_lightning_2021_commit_canvas.md)

- [PyCon 2019 Poster Symposium: Automatic Detection of Pseudo-tested Methods
  Using Python and Pytest](pycon_2019_psuedotested_methods.md)

- [PyCon 2019 Poster Symposium: Using Python and GitHub for Team Formation and
  Assessment](pycon_2019_group_formation.md)

- [PyOhio 2019: Find Your Feature Fit: How to Pick a Text Editor for Python
  Programming](pyohio_2019_text_editors.md)

- [PyCon 2018 Education Summit: Using GitHub, Travis CI, and Python to
  Introduce Collaborative Software
  Development](pycon_2018_collaborative_software.md)

- [PyOhio 2018: A Hands-On Guide to Teaching Programming with GitHub, Travis
  CI, and Python](pyohio_2018_teaching_programming.md)

- [PyGotham 2018: Using Python, Travis CI, and GitHub to Effectively Teach
  Programming](pygotham_2018_teaching_programming.md)

## Problems or Praise

If you have any problems with this list of abstracts for Python-related
presentations, then please raise an issue associated with this Git repository
using the "Issues" link at the top of the site. I will do everything that I can
to resolve your issue and ensure that the presentation works correctly. If you
appreciated this repository and its talk abstracts, then please star it!

Commit message:

Fix a reference in README and then add the Code PaLOUsa talks.

README.md, after:

# python-talk-abstracts

![Build](https://github.com/gkapfham/python-talk-abstracts/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)

This repository contains Markdown files of the abstracts for talks that I,
[Gregory M. Kapfhammer](https://www.gregorykapfhammer.com/), have given at
Python-related and industry-oriented conferences, often in collaboration with
my students and colleagues. I am making these available to the community so
that others can review the details of talks accepted to this type of
conference. Whenever appropriate, I have enhanced the abstracts to make
references to the most up-to-date web sites and GitHub repositories.

This is a summary of the files containing abstracts for talks that I have given
at Python-related conferences:

- [PyCon Lightning Talk 2021: Committing to Writing Good Commit Messages:
  Supporting the Creation of Human- and Machine-Readable Commit Messages with
  Python](pycon_lightning_2021_commit_canvas.md)

- [PyOhio 2021: Type Annotations in Python: Terribly Intimidating or
  Tremendously Informative?](pyohio_2021_type_annotations.md)

- [Code PaLOUsa 2021: Great On Their Own, Even Better Together: Application
  Development with Python, Typer, and
  Poetry](codepalousa_2021_typer_poetry.md)

- [TaDa it's Magic: Predicting the Performance of Python Functions through
  Automated Doubling Experiments](codepalousa_2021_tada_performance.md)

- [PyCon 2019 Poster Symposium: Automatic Detection of Pseudo-tested Methods
  Using Python and Pytest](pycon_2019_psuedotested_methods.md)

- [PyCon 2019 Poster Symposium: Using Python and GitHub for Team Formation and
  Assessment](pycon_2019_group_formation.md)

- [PyOhio 2019: Find Your Feature Fit: How to Pick a Text Editor for Python
  Programming](pyohio_2019_text_editors.md)

- [PyCon 2018 Education Summit: Using GitHub, Travis CI, and Python to
  Introduce Collaborative Software
  Development](pycon_2018_collaborative_software.md)

- [PyOhio 2018: A Hands-On Guide to Teaching Programming with GitHub, Travis
  CI, and Python](pyohio_2018_teaching_programming.md)

- [PyGotham 2018: Using Python, Travis CI, and GitHub to Effectively Teach
  Programming](pygotham_2018_teaching_programming.md)

## Problems or Praise

If you have any problems with this list of abstracts for Python-related
presentations, then please raise an issue associated with this Git repository
using the "Issues" link at the top of the site. I will do everything that I can
to resolve your issue and ensure that the presentation works correctly. If you
appreciated this repository and its talk abstracts, then please star it!
